---
layout: post.html
tags: posts
title: Why this site exists
date: git Created
updated: git Last Modified
---

> "I have made this longer than usual because I have not had time to make it shorter." - Blaise Pascal

## Who am I?

Given that this is the first post on this blog, an introduction is in order.

I am Marcus. I'm not a political pundit, a talk show host, a podcaster, a YouTuber, or even a writer by any means (nor do I have an editor). I have no sponsors, no ties to any political organizations, and I have no claims to fame in any other field either. I graduated from a non-Ivy school with a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, and work as a software developer full-time.

I am informed mostly through social media, probably like the rest of you. I don't currently have any newspaper subscriptions. I don't watch cable news. I don't have any inside sources or any political connections to share exclusive coverage with you.

I'm just a dude with a website. This feels like a necessary disclaimer.

## Why is this here?

I created this site to document and share some of the more sensitive political/philosophical thoughts that I've developed over my lifetime. I wanted to have a place that I owned, that the data was mine. Initially, I thought I wanted to make this a private journal maybe with shared access just among trusted friends. But then something changed that.

## Charlie Kirk

Charlie Kirk was assassinated on September 10, 2025. The shooter has since been identified and so far appears to have been motivated by his opposition to Kirk's political views and ideologies. In the wake of his passing, there have been many comments circulating online ranging from sadness and grief to jubilation and glee. There's been calls from top government officials including the Vice President to [punish individuals that are cheering his death](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cn0r5y33pj5o).

Jimmy Kimmel's talk show was canceled due to his comments, likely directly due to a threat from the FCC chair Brendan Carr's [threat on a podcast](https://youtu.be/uTyX9JC-rhA?si=qnHn5zdwuzouYq8y&t=680) ("We can do this the easy way or the hard way") levied at Disney (which owns ABC). In it, he calls on [licensed broadcasters to preempt the show](https://youtu.be/uTyX9JC-rhA?si=LmEUS6d58hqoDHDY&t=1002) - which [they did](https://apnews.com/article/jimmy-kimmel-show-suspended-charlie-kirk-2c79d56fa53779014f2bb2ed9e47da1f), pulling the show from local ABC channels and forcing Disney to suspend it (however since I sat down to write this it's [back on](https://www.npr.org/2025/09/22/nx-s1-5550330/jimmy-kimmel-back-suspended-disney-trump)).

All of these events started conversations about free speech.

I did not follow Charlie Kirk very closely. I was aware of him, but hadn't watched most of his content. I had seen content from Ben Shapiro before and other conservative "destroys" videos, and had grown tired of their rhetoric, even if in some cases I might be sympathetic to an argument. Critics have been circulating some of Kirk's most unpopular takes after his passing. [Snopes has a great list of them with primary sources and fact checking](https://www.snopes.com/collections/charlie-kirk-shooting-collection/), and I highly recommend listening to the sources directly, so you don't get accused of taking his words out of context. At the end of the day, though, it shouldn't matter what he said.

I've seen comments emphasizing how Kirk was a father, and had a wife and kids he left behind. It's supposed to humanize him, and to help the reader remove their possible disdain for Kirk and acknowledge his humanity. It doesn't seem to have worked - I have actually seen [Tik Toks calling for the death of his wife and kids](https://youtu.be/eJENP0Rr8p0?si=JMCHa6Pvb9FORKdO&t=464). And I also want to say this shouldn't need to matter either - he has humanity in his own right, regardless of his wife and kids.

## Punching Nazis

Over 8 years ago, in 2017, [students protested and prevented Charles Murray from speaking at Middlebury College](https://sites.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2017/03/04/murray-and-middlebury-what-happened-and-what-should-be-done/). Things got out of control and one faculty member even needed to visit the hospital. I posted an op-ed from the New York Times titled ["The Dangerous Safety of College"](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/11/opinion/sunday/the-dangerous-safety-of-college.html) following the event, and it led to some fruitful discussions in the comments with my classmates and friends. I was reminded of this with some of the rhetoric I heard on social media following Kirk's assassination. I think events like the one at Middlebury were when I started noticing more and more people justifying violence against individuals as they were labeled a certain way - in this case "racist" or "white supremacist."

Deep in a thread of the comments back in 2017, I commented (in response to a comment about color-blindness):

> MARCUS: [...] I don't think everyone must accept and reason with all ideas equally. In your example, people should be free to in their own thinking take into account your color blindness and potentially dismiss or even protest your speaking on the matter, but overall the institutions surrounding you should protect your right to speak freely, and nobody should be allowed to punch you or attack you physically for being stubbornly wrong about colors (even if the subject is much more unacceptable than colors, like Nazism).
> MARCUS: (yes I do not believe you should be able to punch "Nazis" in the face without incitement or provocation)

That sparked a discussion of its own. I had a very thoughtful friend challenge me and make me think about my privilege that's present when I make that principled view, with a comment much further in the thread:

> FRIEND: [...] it's easy to abhor violence when you don't have to deal with it. You can philosophize about a perfect world with perfectly fair rule of law, but that's not the reality we live in. In an perfect world I certainly agree with you, but we don't live in a perfect world with a perfect legal system. I don't pretend to understand the fear that a lot of people feel when white nationalists are empowered by the leader of our country. I can't empathize with the anger that a Sikh feels when a fellow Sikh is murdered for being brown and wearing a turban. I don't know what it's like to my rights systematically stripped by the government that supposedly represents me. I'm not going to dictate whether a person in those situations are right or wrong to chose violence.

I am extremely sympathetic to this. It's easy to think super philosophically and theoretical when you have time, space, and privilege to do so. Especially when the outcome won't impact you. But when you feel your back is against the wall, you do the things that _make sense_ in that moment. Some people talk a big game about assassinating Hitler if they had a time machine, but if they had done so before the atrocities took place, would they be seen as a hero or a villain? But maybe that's the wrong question. Maybe the better question is _would it even work?_

Escalating to violence can be a release of tension. It can be an explosion of all the pain and suffering and saying enough is enough. It might feel good to feel like something tangible has been done, and that someone paid the price for their deeds. But when it comes to ideas, assassinations can make martyrs. In these last few weeks following Charlie Kirk's assassination, there's been an incredible movement in response. A "National Day of Remembrance for Charlie Kirk" has been designated for October 14th this year by the Senate. A bill has been introduced to put his face on silver dollar coins. And of course, there's been the aforementioned pressure by V.P. Vance, F.C.C. Chairman Carr, and Attorney General Pam Bondi to go after anyone speaking ill of Kirk after his death.

While I acknowledge my privilege, I'm still against violence. If you don't agree from a moral standpoint, maybe it's worth looking at its effectiveness and alternatives. Another friend in the comment thread from 2017 had linked to [an article from Vox](https://www.vox.com/identities/2016/11/15/13595508/racism-research-study-trump) that covered a study about how frank conversations were effective at reducing bigotry, and another linked to [Southern Poverty Law Center's guide to responding to bigotry](https://www.splcenter.org/resources/reports/speak-responding-everyday-bigotry/).

## The Slap

In 2022, Will Smith walked on stage during the Academy Awards and slapped Chris Rock for making a joke at the expense of Jada Pinkett Smith. I remember being shocked in the aftermath, seeing comments online in defense of Smith. Today while researching writing this, I learned [22% of respondents to a YouGov poll said Smith's actions were acceptable](https://today.yougov.com/topics/entertainment/survey-results/daily/2022/03/28/edb5e/3). This number is far higher than I would expect. I remember being dumbfounded as I read about this being Smith "protecting his family" and some online even said it's a cultural thing, seemingly excusing the violence in support of black culture and racistly implying black people are more violent at the same time. But the most frustrating thing I saw was that some people were claiming that Chris Rock's _words_ were _literal violence_, and Smith was acting in self-defense on behalf of Jada Pinkett Smith. To me that was ludicrous, regardless of how hurtful or inappropriate what Chris Rock said. Words are not violence!

I remember some time later getting into an argument with a friend about this concept of words being violence. Unlike a random person online, this is a person I had a real life relationship with and I knew her to be smart and well reasoned, yet she too insisted that words can indeed be violence. I remember being so frustrated that I couldn't articulate my position. It was such a stunning take to me that words were violence. She isn't alone - while researching as I was writing this I discovered that [45% of a sample of 1,000 Americans believe words can be violence](https://afn.net/education/2024/11/04/research-shows-many-believe-words-and-violence-can-be-the-same-thing/).

My shock about the aftermath at Will Smith's slap came to mind as I processed my shock at the aftermath of Charlie Kirk's shooting. I think they have some similar elements. I imagine that those who are justifying the killing or praising it think that Kirk's words were literal violence. Many of Kirk's positions were controversial, and it wouldn't be hard to take something Kirk said as an attack or threat. And it's worth noting that there's real world harm being enacted by people who share some of Kirk's espoused beliefs - for example, there have been many examples of violent attacks on transgender people by people who likely share Kirk's conservative beliefs on gender. Even in his passing, many have wrongly placed blame on trans people for the shooting or even falsely claimed the shooter himself was trans in an effort to further vilify the trans community.

I can sympathize with Will Smith for wanting to protect his family. I sympathize with the trans community and others for reacting defensively to harmful rhetoric that can have a real impact on their lives. I have to again catch myself and check my own privilege, much like my friend from before called out. I can't say I know what it's like to be in their shoes, and I don't know what they're going through. I don't think most of the people celebrating Kirk's death are even close to carrying out such real violence themselves, but maybe they feel a sense of relief that this person they've perceived as real threat to them is no longer around. I'm not saying that it's right to celebrate the assassination (and especially post it on social media), but I don't think ignoring this context, being disgusted, and responding with "violence is not the answer" and "violence is never ok" as axioms is helpful. I think it's best to try to understand "Why might a rational, thoughtful person think this?" and see what I learn from it. Of course, we don't always act rationally or thoughtfully, but just making this assumption can reframe and recontextualize a lot of actions and behaviors. In this case, I think I've come to understand how it's likely that they have taken Kirk's words as literal violence and his ideas as direct threats to their existence, our democracy, or both. In short, they believe that a Nazi was shot.

## Who is a Nazi?

It's much easier to write-off your opponents as evil enemies. _Both sides do this._ It's not easy to approach someone with humanity when they have beliefs that differ from your own, _especially_ when those beliefs have a real, tangible, and direct impact on your life and livelihood, or you feel threatened and unsafe. Having these conversations is _not_ easy. But there's problems with the alternative. For one, who draws the line of who is allowed to be murdered?

In all of history, this trend of "othering" repeats over and over again. Following 9/11 the U.S. called people "terrorists" to strip them of rights and send them to GITMO. During both the Red Scare and McCarthyism, the U.S. called people "communists" and "soviet spies" to persecute them. Nazism of course villainized the Jews among others, leading to the Holocaust. This labeling goes back as far as the Salem Witch Trials or the Spanish Inquisition. We label groups to villainize them, so that we can tolerate treating them not as fellow humans that exist in real life, but as evil characters that need to be expelled.

These movements worked through fear. Once we were afraid, these actions felt justified. They felt _necessary!_ For the safety and security of the country and its citizens! But we have to resist this - we must not let our fear and hatred get the best of us. We're seeing attempts every day at getting us to vilify different groups - immigrants, trans people, racial minorities, white men/women, "Trumpers", "the left", the "alt-right", the list goes on. We need to get better at recognizing it and ungrouping and unlabeling and not lumping everyone together and still seeing the individuals.

I don't think Charlie Kirk was a "Nazi" or "fascist" - though I admit I haven't followed him much. On the surface he seemed like your run-of-the-mill traditional Christian conservative with controversial opinions, but on a large stage. I really think it's worth watching and listening to [the primary sources that are linked to by each article on Snopes](https://www.snopes.com/collections/charlie-kirk-shooting-collection/) and forming your own opinion. Maybe you'll disagree, and that's ok. But I do think we throw around these terms a bit too lightly.

## My fear

For a long while, I was known to post these political thoughts or current events on Facebook. My friends list included thinkers and debaters like me who would engage with each other, most the time with thoughtful remarks and back and forth. This was a wonderful forum. I didn't do it to change anyone else's mind. In fact, the mind that would change the most would be my own. I wanted to see what these people, my friends and family whom I respected, thought on these topics. I just wanted people talking.

I stopped doing it after a while. Frankly, I went almost silent on social media. There were a lot of consequences starting to happen for saying the wrong things online. Things became more emotionally charged, and my friends became less civil in their discourse. The engagement went from insightful and respectful to people slinging mud at each other and trying to "win" more than share and learn. Somewhere along the way, ["sealioning"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sealioning) became a strategy and term, and it became even harder to have sincere, good-faith discussions online without being accused of one, and people would err on the side of disengaging to not end up wasting their time with one.

I was scared that posting things would lump me in with the "neo-Nazis" or "white nationalists" from one side of friends, and with the "liberal elite" or "socialists" on the other side. Mostly though, I was afraid that I would share an opinion that I myself would disagree with later, but that would haunt me anyway. I had already been wrong before, and I would probably cringe at some of the takes I had in high-school and middle-school. I didn't want to take a wrong step and not be able to recover later. It felt like writing to social media was like etching your thoughts in stone.

In a way, I was sadly right. Recent political violence aside, both sides have fully embraced cancel culture, and the consequences of getting a viral clip or sound-bite have become quite real. At first it was just racists and rapists who were getting exposed leading up to and during the Black Lives Matter movement and the Me Too movement. However, there were some people getting caught on the fringes that didn't feel quite right. Black Lives Matter had the phrase "silence is violence" that criticized any non-participation as equivalent to violence, which didn't sit well with me. And one of the phrases from Me Too was "believe women" - a reasonable reset and change from the current default of doubt, but I think went too far when asking follow-ups or for any more information at all became frowned upon. There were high profile cases of celebrities losing employment, like Colin Kaepernick and Gina Carano. J.K. Rowling, despite her massive following for the beloved Harry Potter series, has fallen almost entirely out of grace for her comments online on trans issues. During COVID-19, social media was censoring discussions around the virus and masking. And now on the other side negative comments against Trump has him aiming to get late-night talk show hosts off the air, and the Vice President is encouraging us to call each others' employers if we don't react the right way to Charlie Kirk. Employers already are filtering out employees and candidates that have too many political interactions online, as they pose a risk to the company's image - no matter which side you come down on, you'll divide the potential customer base as you represent the company even on your own time.

And if the employment risk, deplatforming risk, online harassment and defaming weren't enough to dissuade you from posting opinions online, now there's violence too. There's the high profile examples against our politicians, such as the plot to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer in 2020 over her pandemic measures, the January 6th insurrection in response to the election results, the attack on Paul Pelosi, the assassination attempt of Trump, and the shooting of Minnesota state legislators Melissa Hortman and John Hoffman. But this is one of the first times we've seen a high profile individual _not_ in a political position targeted and killed for their political beliefs.

Something you'll hear from a lot of political commentators, from both sides of the aisle, is that ["this could've been me."](https://www.readtangle.com/the-assassination-of-charlie-kirk/) Charlie was just some _guy_ - sure, he had a huge platform, but he wasn't holding office. He was a podcaster. Some guy with opinions that went around talking and sharing them. His influence was large, don't get me wrong - Trump and Vance both have acknowledged how Kirk helped them get elected - but he's still just some guy going around sharing his ideas.

## This site

I had been planning for a while to get back into discussing more hard topics. I used to have a friend group at work that I could discuss all sorts of political events and issues with, and I miss it. Online, things are harder. Facebook has been where I used to have these conversations among friends, but the algorithm has basically ruined the site for me and I know others don't interact with it as much either anymore.

Initially I wanted to start a blog that was going to be gated to just friends - a sort of "self-hosted" Facebook but just the privacy part. The idea would be that posts would get emailed to your inbox, and you'd have to be a friend of mine to get your email on my list. The site would only be visible via links in the email. Of course, that wouldn't be "secure" - the only security goal would be to hide it from search (and now AIs) and the general public. And of course even on Facebook there's screenshots and copy-paste. But I felt that this would be a good way to ensure what I said wouldn't get misconstrued out of context and/or go viral against my wishes. I tend to be a fairly private person, and don't want to become famous or well known for good reasons let alone bad ones. The idea is that most of the people that know me will know that I come in good faith and with curiosity, and with what my work calls "strong opinions, loosely held."

But ironically and despite my fears, in response to Charlie Kirk's shooting, I decided to do this publicly instead. The message I want to send is that we ought to be talking and listening to each other more, and not be afraid. It should be ok - in fact it is _good_ - to talk about these things and learn from one another and each other's experiences and ideas.

One of the other things that's been holding me back is writing takes a lot of time and effort, especially when you want to cite things to ensure that you're not talking out of your own ass, and your thoughts come spewing out of you with no organization. This is actually one of the benefits of writing though - it actually helps me clarify for myself what my own thoughts are, and helps me organize them and articulate them more carefully. Even if nobody reads my blog, I think this exercise is worthwhile for me to better understand these issues myself. I highly recommend it to anyone, even if you don't publish.

Of course, I'm just a guy and I'm not going to get it right all the time. I'm sure there will always be some of you that will disagree with something I say, and that's ok. Or I'll communicate something poorly, or make mistakes, or accidentally say something offensive or misleading. I hope you don't stop following this blog (or being friends with me if you know me). If you're willing, take the time to [email me](mailto:marcus@insidethoughts.me) and let me know what you think. I might even update the posts with your response. Or better yet, make your own blog post. Starting a blog today is cheaper and easier than ever. I'll help you set it up if you want.

Can't wait to continue talking, listening, and learning.

Thank you for reading.

Marcus
